I think uh conservatives have a really
great way of designing a narrative that
makes sense to as broad of an audience
as possible.
>> Everyone is everyone is in the business
of crafting media narratives, right? And
the
>> I wish Democrats were a little bit
better at it to be fair.
[Music]
>> Hassan has no filter. Or at least
that's the generous way to describe his
marathon streaming broadcasts.
>> Fascists need to go to prison
permanently. Sig highing has one use.
You're a Nazi.
>> If Donald Trump is going somewhere, it
is certainly not heaven. Israel is an
illegal entity. Okay. Which cover
everything from the war in Gaza.
>> It's crazy to me that we treat Israel
like this unstoppable force. Like they
are not human beings that are making
these decisions to bomb schools,
mosques, hospitals. to his fitness
regimen.
>> Are you on creatine? Yes, I love
creatine. I love creatine.
>> He's a self-proclaimed Marxist and
anti-imperialist.
>> We here in the United States of America
live under the comfort of being a part
of the labor aristocracy
>> who's been hopefully called the left's
answer to Joe Rogan and who's compared
himself to Rush Limbaugh and he keeps
getting suspended from his platform
Twitch for language that he calls
hyperbolic and other people call
incitement. Is this person calling for
the death of a US senator? Of course
not. Hello. If you're watching this,
that means I just got banned.
>> Is he the future of the left or is he
just another example of how living on
the internet drives everyone insane.
Hassan welcome to Interesting
Times.
>> We are living in some interesting times.
Considering that uh it is you, Ross Dow
that is interviewing me for the New York
Times. Who else? Who else would it be,
man? This is this is a show. This is a
place for
>> um the interesting perspectives of our
moment. And I think I think that's what
you represent. And we're going to get
we're going to get into that. We're
going to talk about the Hassan
worldview. We're going to talk about
debates about political violence. But I
thought we should start because I know
what you do. I'm very techsavvy.
Obviously, I'm, you know, very online. I
understand. and I understand the
internet, but there may be some
listeners and viewers um who don't know
what a Twitch streamer is. So, I want
you to tell me what a Twitch streamer
is.
Yeah. Um Twitch streamers broadly for
the most part play video games. Uh I'm a
little bit unique to the space uh
because I cover politics. I I do news
and political commentary for the most
part. But I do lifestyle stuff as well
and I do the regular things that Twitch
streamers do on the side, but that's
secondary. Um, but Twitch is basically a
live streaming platform. So for the
boomers that read the New York Times, I
would say it's like YouTube, but it's
always live. It's like just live stream
YouTube. That's it.
>> Right? So when I make a podcast, I come
into this beautiful, wonderful studio
and I sit down and it's like a
self-contained thing, but then it's
edited and cut up and, you know, turn
turned into the product, right?
>> But when you But when you sit down, you
go for 7 hours like
>> uh if you ask my audience now, they'll
say half day uh half day and they'll say
seven hours, which is a joke. But yeah,
I I used to do it for 8 to 10 hours
every day, but I've uh cut back.
>> I'm 34 now,
>> so I just I lowered it to seven.
>> Okay. And are you going You're doing it
after we record this, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So, it's And I go seven days a week as
well. Every Sunday. Sunday. Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think if someone, you know, they
can see you right now with the mic and
the background, right? But if someone
who wasn't familiar with this sort of
dropped into the stream, they'd see
other stuff on screen,
>> right? So, what would they see? What
What do you share the screen with?
>> Um, normally at any given moment, if you
tune in, uh, you can either see me full
screen like this, just doing direct to
camera commentary,
uh, or most likely reading an article,
criticizing it piece by piece. And also
sometimes, uh, I offer commentary over
uh, media from, uh, from TV channels as
well. And it's a it's a broad spectrum
of political ideology.
>> And you're also talking to people who
are talking to you though, right?
>> So there are
tens of thousands, sometimes hundreds of
thousands of concurrent live viewers,
>> right?
>> That are in my chat. So we broadly call
it chat. They're on the side of the
screen. You can see it as well. It's
just constantly going up and down like
it's the Matrix, right? because this is
a constant flow of thoughts. And I don't
know exactly how I figured this out.
Maybe it's my ADHD, but uh I have been
able to somehow offer
>> commentary that people consider
compelling
>> while simultaneously
through
>> and you're responding. Somebody writes a
sentence and says, you know,
>> that's stupid Hassan because of this.
And you're like, "No, you know, Gremlin
user 47,
>> I'm brilliant." You say something,
right?
>> Well, I wouldn't I wouldn't
>> I don't know if I would say that, but
sometimes it's complimentary information
that's coming in. So, it's almost like a
hive mind that uh can quickly extract
and find information all around the
internet. And sometimes it's contentious
where people come in and they're
right-wingers or they come in and
they're liberals who disagree with me on
something and they'll be like, "This is
wrong. here is why you're wrong. And
then there's like a very quick uh
spirited debate. Uh and sometimes it can
even get a little heated. So the way
I've always described what I do is that
uh I'm I'm basically like Rush Limbob
but for zoomers. So it's almost like AM
radio in the spirit of like conservative
commentary. But obviously uh I think I
have a a higher standard for for the
veracity of the information that I'm
looking at cuz a big part of what I do I
think especially in this age on the
internet uh is is sift through the
misinformation. So uh a big part of what
I do is also just like going through all
of that and um in in real time and also
trying to instill some sense of media uh
literacy in in the audience. So I I
explain it as I'm holding your hand
through the journey of reading the news.
>> Do you take a bathroom break? Like
what's your
>> I do.
>> How many bathroom breaks do you take?
>> I I don't know. But my um there are some
people in the community that time my
bathroom breaks and I think
>> Okay.
>> So it can range anywhere from
>> I I don't need to know how long the
bathroom breaks are actually.
>> The bathroom breaks range from 22
seconds to sometimes a minute and 10. Um
>> Okay. But I'm away from the screen for a
brief moment. Y
>> and often times I'll just have like the
video running like the live video feed
running.
>> Um and I'll I'll stay tuned to it so I'm
not like missing anything. Uh and uh I
do I'll have my father uh who who comes
and stays with me over extended periods
of time uh make me a meal and I'll eat
that on camera as well cuz I'm live for
seven hours a day. I eat at the same
time every single day. I have a very
strict regimen
>> and so regimen. So like how does your
body feel? So I after I podcast this is
you know too much confession but it's
like I'm kind of exhausted in a way that
is not the case if you sit down and
write a column I assure you right like
it's a physical experience to talk to
someone or interview them in a way that
I didn't expect before I got into this
business. Right? And most of the time
you do have guests, but most of the time
you're not doing interviews, but you are
arguing with people in real time, right?
Like are you just spent at the end of
the seven hours or do you need to do you
like go off and exercise? Like what's
what is the lifestyle?
>> Well, um the lifestyle that your paper
style section actually documented was um
>> Yeah, I read I read that I read that
piece.
>> Yeah. So, I um it was quite the
controversial title for that piece that
everybody everybody seemingly got mad
at, but um you're you're absolutely
correct.
>> What was the title? What was the title?
>> I think it was a progressive mind and a
MAGA body or something.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um so, it depletes my social
battery on like anything else that I've
ever done. after the end of like a 7 8
10 hour broadcast, I do uh often times
feel the need to just like kind of
unwind and I have a hard time just like
talking to people. Um
>> immediate aftermath of that cuz the way
I see it like you're constantly on you
have to be entertaining every single
second every single second of the 8 hour
broadcast. like you can't have dead air.
You have to be constantly uh uh
entertaining people. You uh or
constantly trying to educate people. So,
uh there are some some difficulties in
that. um you're also constantly online
and uh in order not to feel super
isolated and and super sheltered from
you know how regular people operate and
how they feel uh I I always find uh that
uh I I I ground myself basically by
being around what I like to call normies
or civilians. Uh, and I spend most of my
time offline directly outside going to
public parks, hanging out with my
friends, and also working out is a big
part of this as well, obviously. Um,
>> well, that's you can't have the MAGA
body if you aren't if you aren't if you
aren't working out, right?
>> Yeah,
>> that's what that's what they tell me. I
haven't put it to the test yet, but you
know, um, what So, you you mentioned
you're 34, right? So, you're too old.
You're too old to go for 9 or 10 hours.
you have to go for seven hours. Um, you
don't have a family, right? You're not
you're not married.
>> No.
>> Um, like are you going to be doing this
at 50
>> at my at my age of 45? The ancient the
ancient years. I
>> I think so. Okay. Yeah. The the reason
why I said that is because like I've
designed everything in my life so that
uh I can continue doing this. This is
what I'm good at. This is the only thing
I'm good at. Well, you've designed it,
but like not to, you know, not to not to
play the social conservative advice
giver, right? But like, do you want to
have kids?
>> Like, I do. Yeah.
>> Okay. But you might have to redesign
your life someday.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Fit fit the kid in. I mean, fit
the kids in.
>> Well, there might be an issue, but yeah.
All right. Let's let's let's
>> No, no. I meant like there is no issue
with with uh scaling back on certain
aspects of my life is what I mean,
>> right? So the weekends could free up
someday.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Good. For sure.
>> All right. Let's talk about the cause
then. The what what you're fighting for.
Give me the Hassan worldview. What
do you believe?
>> I believe that the United States of
America is a profoundly wealthy nation.
It's the wealthiest nation on earth
right now. and therefore uh it could be
doing right by all of the people that
are in the United States of America and
it and yet it refuses to do so. And I
want to uh through a system uh of of
at first modest social democratic
reforms basically claw back autonomy for
the the everyday person and hopefully uh
give them more of a voice in their
workplace and also in the political
process as well and slowly but surely
yield more egalitarian outcomes. Um, on
the global dominance side, I think that
we should uh significantly uh scale back
uh imperialism
and then the endless wars that we engage
in and focus on helping people in this
country and even focus on helping people
in other countries but in a meaningful
way. uh not in a way where we uh change
their own internal governance structures
uh aggressively and sometimes directly
through intervention and by force.
>> Okay. So situate that narrative relative
to actual democratic politicians and
activists and so on, right? Like are you
where Bernie Sanders is and Alexandria
Okasiocortez are or are you someone
who's saying that's a good start but
fundamentally
you know we want to be democratic
socialists but with an emphasis on the
socialism like how how far do you want
to take the transformation of America?
>> Okay. Um so it's not just the
transformation of America I think it's
the it's the transformation of global
politics uh in its entirety. I think
that uh capitalism was an evolution away
from feudalism and and monarchies and I
think it was uh a a fantastic evolution
away from that structure and liberal
capitalist democracies I think for a
very long time presented this this
wonderful new evolution but I think it's
time for an alternative vision uh to
take place considering that the the
tremendous amount of bloodshed that
keeps propping up the system continues
and I feel like we have an opportunity
to to move away from this especially at
a time when liberalism is demonstrabably
failing and uh we are seeing even as
Cassinstein uh recognizes uh illiberals
that are uh taking advantage of this of
this situation. Now of course he would
probably consider me to be illiberal in
some respects.
>> We don't have to we don't have to say
illiberal let's say post liberal. Right?
So, you've got people people on the
right
>> who would call themselves post-liberal.
You've got religious post-liberals.
You've got the Curtis Yarvin, you know,
we're going to have a, you know, a
Silicon Valley king post liberal. Right.
So, you're a left post liberal. I think
that's fair.
>> But what
>> I wouldn't say I'm a liberal. Yeah.
>> Right. You're you're post, right? So,
you want something after um liberalism
was good for a while, but it's generated
too many inequalities. it's too harsh on
the world. Um, but what is the
alternative? Is it Marxist? Is it, you
know, is it essentially deeper and more
profound government management of the
economy? What are we talking about?
>> I think I don't have the the perfect
solution for this and this is something
that I readily admit, but I think moving
in the direction of socialism would be a
wonderful start. Uh and the reason why I
say that is because as you mentioned
like a lot of the post-liberal
conversations uh almost always revolve
around uh unifying strength in the hands
of one singular figure or one person. Uh
going back to a a a neofudalist or or
like a like a
>> aristocrat
>> crypto monarch structure that Curtis
Yarvin advocates for. What I'm
advocating for is more democracy. Um,
principled democracy, not even in the
the anarchist sense where uh everything
has to be handled with uh or all
unjustifiable hierarch hierarchies must
be abolished through uh direct
participation, but at least like having
a more democratic process and getting
people more involved uh starting at the
the point of commodity production and
then moving all the way to political
participation.
Um, I want to talk in a minute about
sort of how you developed this worldview
and and your background, but I I want to
pause on that idea of sort of democratic
change, right?
um
is all effective change democratic or
you know the thing that the original
post-lberal Marxists tended to believe
right was that you know there are
certain things you can accomplish
through a democratic system but there's
also revolutionary moments right to be
clear this isn't just a Marxist idea
obviously this is the United States of
America we're founded on a revolution
right
>> um but like what is what is your view of
revolution as a
potential transformative force in the
world.
>> Uh all politics in my worldview revolves
around the distribution of resources and
the distribution of power. And a big
part of that component is of course
violence as well. Revolutionary violence
for example. And um it just simply means
like who gets to do the violence
>> and who gets to be on the receiving end
of that violence that we have normalized
because the systems that we exist under
are inherently violent. all political
systems are um it's just more so uh
about redirecting that and I know
violence is such a scary concept in this
uh in this when we're discussing in this
way but we're talking about it in an
academic context um but um but basically
the the idea is that instead of having a
system that currently benefits the the
very few uh I I want
a system that benefits as many people as
possible that has more like I said
egalitarian outcomes
>> and the current system as you said uses
violence and yeah all political systems
are about the monopoly of force in the
end right but
>> you use the phrase redirect violence
what does it mean to say we need to
redirect violence
>> I mean I first of all I abhore violence
let's just start there right but
violence in this uh abstract concept
would be equivalent to the the
structural violence of poverty for
example. So when I'm talking about
violence, I want to make it very clear.
I'm not talking like go out, take up
arms and like start shooting people,
right? I'm I'm talking about the
structural violence of poverty.
Redirecting that redirecting the same
way would be uh the the structural
>> the structural violence of equity
because structural eradication of unjust
wealth.
>> Would that be fair? That would be that
would be
>> so the socialist so the socialist
society
>> does not
>> go out and shoot people.
>> No. Yeah.
>> Though this has happened in some
socialist societies in the past.
>> I should just note. Um but it goes into
You live in you live in LA, right? Um,
so it goes into, you know, um, Beverly
Hills or something and it says, "Today
the, you know, the city council has
voted to expropriate
>> expropriate your lavish undeserved
wealth and return your homes to the
people and that's backed up by police
power. So, it's violent, but it's not
it's not, you know, shooting people
against the wall." But like, is that is
that what you mean? That kind of
redirection. similar yeah a similar
structure I think like has been
attempted or or uh was exhibited in in
Cuba and and I think it was Fidel Castro
himself who personally uh took back uh
any farmland from his own family members
that that went above and beyond what the
state had designed. Now obviously this
is a terrifying concept for a lot of
people. So this is so far in the future,
right?
>> Yeah. This is so far out in the future
uh for for even someone like myself that
like I don't even see the necessity of
arguing on how this would work because
I'm more invested in especially in the
short term getting socialized medicine
like getting universal healthcare uh
getting free schooling uh all the way up
to the college education especially for
public universities ensuring that we
have some semblance of of government
competition if you want to call it that
that interferes with the with the
regular market to claw back housing
prices, for example, by by creating
public housing. Uh things that exist in
other uh fairly robust social
democracies and things that actually a
lot poorer nations have been able to
develop just good governance.
>> Okay.
But we're having so we're having a
debate right now about political
political violence in the US, right? So
yes, I agree. The expropriation of the
property of wealthy Angelinos
is abstract and we can, you know, far
far in the future, right? But debates
about political violence in this moment
aren't. And your platform Twitch is
right now looks like it might be one of
the Trump administration's
targets in the aftermath of the Kirk
shooting. There's been a lot of talk
about, you know, we're going to go after
uh, you know, institutions and
organizations that support political
radicalism or incite violence. I think
Congress is calling CEOs from Discord
and Steam and Twitch and Reddit to
testify next month.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
why are they doing this? Why is why is
Twitch Why is Twitch a target?
>> Um, I I suspect a big part of the reason
why Twitch is a target here, even though
it was not mentioned in the
investigation at all, like there's no
evidence that Tyler Robinson, the
alleged shooter of Charlie Kirk, was
ever on Twitch. He might have he might
have been, right? But there's no
evidence for it uh whatsoever. But the
reason why uh they're they're being
called in, I think, is specifically
because the administration currently is,
in my opinion, perhaps in a very cynical
manner, utilizing Charlie Kirk's uh
death as a way to bring about
significant
uh clawbacks of the the First Amendment.
um free expression and and free
organization, free free organizing of
the political left. And they haven't
necessarily made this a secret either.
They've gone after Jimmy Kimmel and
numerous other
uh cultural figures that conservatives
have of petty grievances around, right?
And they've done so in in a way where uh
even the most vanilla, the most timid
assessment of events is is enough for
the administration to pull the FCC in
>> to to demand uh taking Jimmy Kimmel off
the air. And this has created tremendous
backlash from uh even Republicans, as a
matter of fact, because a lot of people
do love free speech. I love free speech.
I come from a country that does not have
free speech. I came to the United States
of America from Turkey originally. uh a
country that actually does jail
political dissident and journalists uh
quite frequently and I don't want that
to happen here in the United States of
America.
>> Right. So it's it's
>> but that is what they're going towards.
>> Right. So you have you have the Jimmy
Kimmel controversy as of as of this
conversation he's back on the air but
what they're doing with calling in
Twitch and so on like that's that's kind
of about you right like you are you are
a target
>> for sure
>> right and are you a target are you a
target just just because
>> you say you know you're some kind of
Marxist who wants to be post-lberal or
is it something else
>> I think uh Conservatives have a really
great way of designing a narrative that
makes sense to as broad of an audience
as possible, even though their own
setback is is uh often times uh how hard
they go after certain people.
>> Um but in the in the grand design of
things, if you look at like the Antifa
designation as a domestic terror group,
for example, if you read the executive
order, it makes sense. They're they're
presenting this as a as a uh this this
violent leftist organized unit that is
like responsible for so much political
violence that's taking place. It's of
course built up uh around this hysteria
that they expertly craft as a media
narrative first and foremost, but then
but then they they want to tackle it.
>> Everyone is everyone is in the business
of crafting media narratives, right? And
the media
>> I wish Democrats were a little bit
better at it to be fair. The media
narrative around Antifa, right, exists
at some level of hype, but also some
level of reality because if you lived in
Portland, Oregon in the year of our Lord
2020, you had a lot of experiences of
political protest and violence that
involved people who called themselves
Antifa. That was not fake, right? And
it's also not fake that you are a
provocator, right? like they're not, you
know, there there are plenty of people
>> on Twitch who are, you know, who they're
not who who are not highlighted by
conservatives, right? I just want to
give you one more chance to describe the
things about you in your own words that
people are going after before I describe
them for you.
>> Yeah. No, I I I'm sure that we'll get to
that point as well, but like I said,
>> in just a second we will. the things the
things that I the things that I advocate
for are pretty clear. Um, but of course
it's this is something that
conservatives have experienced and have
considered cancel culture or like
wokeness uh in particular for for quite
a bit where you can just like reframe
someone and and smear them especially in
the format that uh that I exist in. It's
quite simple to take people completely
out of context or make it seem as though
they are incapable of using metaphor or
uh incapable of being insincere or or um
hyperbolic in moments, right? And so it
it kind of goes back to the same thing
is like Antifa is a serious threat to
American stability and order and it's an
organized unit that must be tackled
because they're justifying uh violence
against uh you know
>> and what do they think you are?
and things of that nature.
>> The equivalent of that would be
conservatives saying that you're
inciting violence, right?
>> Yes. I think that is precisely what
they're going to try to do. And not just
like inciting violence necessarily, but
uh inciting terror.
>> Right.
>> Revolutionary terror, you might say.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Exactly. And I think that
is the grand design and the ways in
which uh the the conservative apparatus
is going to try and stamp out any sort
of political discontent like any sort of
political disscent really. Um because
that much has been clear to me where
it's not just about people like myself
who they can who they can single out and
target and say are like you know very
scary individuals but it's also Gavin
Newsome, right? like Gavin Newsome will
come out and and make this symbolic
gesture where he has no power over
federal agents, but he'll he'll say that
in the next year, ICE agents that are
conducting ICE operations in California
state have to be unmasked when they're
doing this, right? And this is I think
it's a fairly reasonable provision even
though it's uh it's ultimately symbolic.
Having said that, however, could the
conservative apparatus will point to
that as like Gavin Newsome wants to kill
ICE agents and docks them? Like that's
not the case, right? I mean, that's just
that's ridiculous.
>> All right, so let's let's let's make
this a little more concrete.
>> You are telling a story where it's you
and Jimmy Kimmel and Gavin Newsome,
right? And you're all targets of the
conservative apparatus. Okay. But you're
you're pretty different from Jimmy
Kimmel and Gavin Newsome in part a lot
for reasons we were just discussing,
right? They're liberals. They're good
milktoast liberals, whatever they may
say.
>> And you are more radical. You're
post-liberal in some way. You want a
different a different horizon, a
different future.
>> But beyond that, you are also willing to
push your rhetoric further than they do.
Certainly further than Jimmy Kimmel
does. Right. And I say this, I want to
be clear. I have a pretty high tolerance
for, let's say, vivid political
rhetoric. I came of age as a newspaper
columnist in the 2010s when my liberal
friends were all saying like, "Oh, every
time the Tea Party, you know, talks
about revolution and taking our country
back, they're inciting violence." And
now I live in a world where my
conservative friends say Gavin Newsome's
inciting violence. Anyone who calls
Trump a fascist is fighting violence. I
think this is a I think this is a free
country. I think if you want to call
Donald Trump a fascist, you're free to
do so. If I want to call you a commie,
I'm free to I'm free to do so. You know,
people do it all the time.
>> People do it all the time. I, you know,
>> but this is my reading and I'll let you
tell me why I'm wrong in a minute. I
think you push further and I think you
like to play
>> with the rhetoric of violence. So, like
you were suspended from Twitch, I think,
for a day and there was an argument you
were having about Medicare fraud, right?
and the GOP was going to crack down on
Medicare fraud. And you said, "Well, if
they really cared about Medicare fraud
or Medicaid fraud, you would kill Rick
Scott." This is the Florida Senator, and
it's a reference to the fact that
Scott's company
>> uh paid some huge fines for they they
were engaged in some kind of Medicare
fraud, right?
>> But you didn't say we should put Rick
Scott in jail for Medicare fraud, right?
You said if you cared about Medicare
fraud or Medicaid fraud, you would Rick
Scott. Okay? You wouldn't make Rick
Scott former governor of Florida Rick
Scott. You wouldn't make him uh a
prominent part of the Republican party.
Well, this was for the record. Yeah,
this was a in response directly to Mike
Johnson and it is something that I take
ownership over. I did I did apologize
for the language that I use instead of
saying like, you know, just you should
jail Rick Scott, right?
>> Uh which would have been the most
inoffensive. It was a hyperbolic
statement that I made. uh not with like
uh any sort of significant death threat
issued to a a sitting elected
representative. Obviously,
>> I agree. I don't think I issuing a death
threat. I agree.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, but but you're right.
That is hyperbolic language for sure.
And it's it's uh it's one statement in a
grand uh sea of others that that of
course gets highlighted through the same
outrage machine and then uh people
demand punishments and then those
punishments do come down and it causes
me to be even more careful with my
language. Having said that, given the
10-hour format that I have, there are
definitely going to be weak moments
where I just like say something without
even thinking about what that might come
across as.
>> Yeah.
I mean, you do. Again, I I read I read
through
you have a lot of content, right? So,
I'm not going to tell you that I have
read through every every hour, every
transcript. Um,
>> yeah,
>> but I feel like I read enough to get a
sense of sort of what you mean by
hyperbole, right? And it means it means
different things, right? It means like
you're you know, you're talking about
you're talking about landlords and why
they're bad. I think you were you know,
you were talking to a landlord friend at
the time, right? as you said, you know,
let the streets soak in their bleeping
red capitalist blood, dude.
>> Right. So, yeah, I don't
>> And then I also said in a video game,
but right
>> to to showcase the silliness of the
statement of
>> Right. Okay. So, it's like ironic or is
it Marxist revolutionary rhetoric? I I
just want to bring this to a fine point.
There's the great case of Luigi Manion,
right? um who is charged with murdering
the CEO of United Healthcare in broad
daylight in New York City. And you're
going to tell me that you've always said
that murder is wrong and that Luigi
Banjon should not have committed murder.
Um, but you've talked a lot about Luigi
and you
>> I think it's one of the most
consequential it's one of the most
consequential instances of adventurism
which I always will say is
>> wrong because I think it invokes social
instability which I think is is bad in
general to to exist under. But what I
try to always do, especially with the
Luigi Manion case, is to talk about the
concept, for example, of social murder,
the notion of of our our systems that
already exist, like the the
privatization of healthcare and the
denial of care that uh that make people
infinitely less tolerant than we
normally would in a civilized society to
an adventurous act of of violence such
as the case with Luigi Manion. Who is
we?
>> I'm interested in talking about Just
pause there.
>> That make You're talking because this is
this is something you've done
>> a bunch, right? You sort of you don't
say I love Luigi. You're like we people
people are you know he's seen as a
positive figure for most of America. He
says I'm going to dish out what many
Americans have experienced to the
figurehead
>> of that of that pain. Right. Mhm.
>> Do you think like most Americans
sympathize with like who who is the we
who looks at shooting United Healthcare
CEO and says that's understandable.
>> I think it's the people online that are
not necessarily like card carrying DSA
members or whatnot, but just like
>> that's Democratic Socialist of America
just for
>> you know. Yeah. Yeah. not not the like
the DSA guys or the Democratic Socialist
of America or or you know Party for
Socialism and Liberation, but it's like
the the Barbers and the Deborah as I
like to call it that you know live in
the Midwest and are are uh truly
uh repulsed by the way that uh that
private healthc care operates in this
country. And for them I think the Luigi
Mun case is really unique because
Americans do not like political
violence. Right. Nobody likes it. I
mean, it's this is poll after poll that
has shown everyone thinks that obviously
murder is wrong. Uh I think murder is
wrong. Everyone thinks political
violence is wrong. And yet in the case
of Luigi Manion, a lot of people I think
had such a deep personal experience with
the way that the health care system has
harmed them in some way that the
reaction ultimately was very different
than one I had expected. From the moment
that before they even found out who the
alleged shooter was, from the moment
that people recognized that the victim
was the faceless uh uh CEO of a
healthcare company, everyone immediately
understood not faceless, right?
>> No, no. I'm saying like for
>> for most people, the healthcare company
had previously been faceless and now
there was a debt ban who had a face.
>> Right.
>> Exactly. and and
that was a unique case that needed to be
examined and that's precisely the reason
why the media was covering it in the
same way as well. The only difference is
that tonally speaking they were just
more so outraged by the reaction in of
itself rather than trying to examine why
people felt this way. And I think what I
try to do in this situation and many
others is to explain why people feel
this way because for them uh when their
grandparent has cancer and then that
treatment is denied or the coverage is
denied even though they're paying these
incredibly costly premiums to this
healthcare company, they view that as
murder. They view that as as a a
tremendous wrong that was done to them.
And I seek to address these problems so
that there isn't decentralized forms of
violence where people uh make up their
own minds and assume that they have uh
the the righteous vindication and
they're going to go out and do things
like this.
>> I don't know man. I think you're kind of
a hype man for it though. Like you're
Yes, I I agree. You're doing analysis
and sometimes the analysis you're people
would have celebrated Luigi Manion
obviously without you Hassan
>> talking about him all the time, right?
But I listen to the way you talk about
him. Like you're fascinated by him too.
You're participating in the fascination
and you're doing a thing where you're
like, well, you know, I'm not saying
violence is good, but you've got to
understand that there's other forms of
violence in society besides this one.
And people who like Manion,
>> um, they're saying this violence maybe
isn't as bad as that kind of violence.
And this just seems to me like you're
not the guy who starts the revolution,
but you're the violence appreciator.
That's that's sort of how how I feel
about your manion coverage. You're
you're out there.
It's like, okay, tell me why it's not
fair.
>> But but the reason why I'm saying I
wouldn't say that that's fair is because
like I do make it obviously very clear
that um and I I refer to this over and
over again. adventurism
and and people taking matters into their
own hands is a mere uh reaction to the
social contract unwinding in real time
in front of us. I don't think this is a
good thing. I want to make sure that we
have a system that helps everyone and
and a part of that is creating the same
social stability that existed. Now, you
can do that by force uh by stamping out
disscent and moving in the direction of
the Trump administration or you can try
and do that by by uh addressing some of
these inequities that exist that do
actually harm a lot of people, right?
Cuz I don't think you disagree with my
assessment that systems are inherently
violent no matter which way uh they go.
And that uh but and I assume you
understand what I mean when I say like
the social murder of tens of thousands
of Americans in the process of of having
their their healthcare coverage denied.
Like it must interest you as well,
right? Cuz it interests uh certainly
people at CNN and many other uh
mainstream outlets like why people are
doing this. But their reflection on it
is
>> I I think it I think it is I think it's
100% the case
>> that people had certain people who had
terrible experiences with the health
insurance bureaucracy
um had a you know had a re reaction to
the assassination that is like what you
described. I think that's absolutely
real and it says something about the way
the system works in America. On the
other hand, I also think and again
because I'm not a socialist utopian,
right? I think that I think that there
is not this magical alternative where,
you know, if we only didn't have nasty
politicians who love the rich imposing
austerity, everyone would get all the
care that they want. I don't think that
world exists. You know, I have a lot of
personally negative experiences with the
American healthcare system. Um I had
technically still have chronic Lyme
disease which is a disease that
officially doesn't exist. Um it
definitely exists and I have known a lot
of people in that world who have a very
specific version of the kind of anger
you're describing that's directed
towards the medical establishment and
how it interacts with insurance
companies. And you know these are people
who've had their lives
>> ruined by this illness that the system
does not effectively cover. or treat.
Um, but it's really important, right, as
a society
that if one of my friends who had
chronic Lyme disease went out and killed
someone who they felt was involved in
denying them treatment and maybe was,
>> right, that you wouldn't do that it
would be irresponsible for me to do a
podcast and be like, "Man, that person
looks badass." I think that would be
irresponsible even if I was appreciating
something real. And that's that's where
I think you're
it's not you saying it's really
interesting how people have this
reaction to it is is what I'm
challenging or questioning. It's the
extent to which again you're like, "Oh,
he's an adventurer." It's the propaganda
of the deed, man. Well, okay. Yeah, but
a society that has those adventurers is
going to be in a lot of trouble pretty
quick.
>> I agree. I I don't disagree with you on
this. I think it's a it's a reflection
of the the very social fabric that keeps
us together and keeps us stable,
unwinding in real time. America is a
very vi violent country, right? But we
have systematized this violence and we
have normalized it and inevitably that
violence has also come back to the
domestic front where there's uh
unlimited bloodshed happening at
schools. I mean, Charlie Kirk's
assassination was the 46th uh school
shooting, technically, a shooting that
happened at a school, and then the 47th
happened uh only only an hour later in
Colorado.
And and our our reflection on these
sorts of events is that because it's so
normalized because the system must
continue because there are numerous
different interests at play here
specifically gun manufacturers for
example very important part of uh our
our you know domestic manufacturing
industry. We
>> and America is an extreme part of
American culture.
>> America is an extremely
>> libertarian personal liberties devoted
society in ways that have right-wing
connotations like lots of gun ownership
and
>> leftwing connotations too. But but yes,
go on.
>> Certainly. And and what I'm trying to
say is that uh in the absence of any
sort of of significant initiative to
claw back some of that to to have uh
some kind of you know reasonable policy
that will say all right guys like we all
like guns. I like guns. I like shooting
guns right? I do not have any sort of
gun culture in my in my development. I
>> began my journey of understanding guns
because I was writing about gun control
and I was like I need to learn about
this stuff. But having said that, I
still believe that there needs to be
reasonable gun safety, reasonable gun
control. This is not a a call to action
to say like, "Oh, it's awesome that like
school shootings are happening or it's
awesome that political assassinations
are taking place left and right."
>> No, but nobody say,
>> but this is this is the difference and
say that it's no longer just like random
school children that are being killed is
what I mean. The only reason why this is
becoming a a more significant, more
consequential problem in the eyes of
many people in the media is because it's
no longer uh people that we can just
kind of see as collateral damage and
like consider to be invisible.
>> I don't I don't think that's right.
First of all, I think that the media has
given a lot of coverage to school
shootings. I think it would be strange
to say that the media has ignored that
issue in any way, shape, or form. I
think the lie but I but I think the lie
you're like the reason people are upset
in this case the reason that people are
upset in this particular case right is
that
>> when school shootings happen
>> right there is except in very online
communities there is not valorization
of the school shooters nobody calls a
school shooter an adventurer right
>> and the people people obviously we don't
want to live in a world with school
shootings but we especially don't want
to live in a world where it seems like
people who are sort of in the public
scrum like you right
>> are are sort of appreciating violence
like if I you know I'm pro-life I think
abortion abortion is a form of murder um
I think if you know if somebody killed
an abortionist and I went in the New
York Times the next day and tried to
write something that was in the vein of
what you've said about Manion and
concede writing and talking are
different, right? But if I done that, it
wouldn't be published and I might be
fired. Not as a violation of my free
speech rights, but because I would be
crossing a line of again, not
endorsement, but even just appreciation,
like the appreciation of the violent
act. I think there's a taboo around that
for a reason. And you like pushing at
that taboo. I just think that's what you
like to do. I don't I don't it's not
something that I like to do necessarily,
but I want to examine the contradictions
of even what you just said, right? Um
you say abortion is murder. I obviously
don't agree with that. I'm I'm uh I'm
pro-choice. Um I think it's it's a
matter of of bodily autonomy and the
government shouldn't interfere in this
between a medical professional and a and
a woman. Um, having said that,
you get to argue about women's bodily
autonomy
being potentially removed by making the
argument through the systematized
version of violence. Because I think, as
you would probably also recognize,
abortion restrictions have come down in
numerous states since the decision of
Roie Wade was overturned. And in the
process, women have found themselves in
this unique predicament where they can't
even get their ectopic pregnancies dealt
with uh because their medical
professionals are worried about
potential prosecution. This has led to a
lot of pain and a lot of torment and
maybe even in some instances death. When
you argue on behalf of the pro-life
position, you can you don't have to say
like uh Bill O'Reilly did uh tiller
tiller the baby killer and then someone
goes out and actually shoots a doctor.
You can simply say
this is this. I'm not putting words in
your mouth. I don't know what your
position is on on or your advocacy
around abortion, but someone of this
mindset can easily just advocate for the
harm that is done to millions of
Americans potentially
without uttering a single word that
could be considered remotely violent by
most by the broadest subsects of
American society.
>> Right. So, you're right. Here's the I
uneven dynamic is what I'm trying to
>> I understand your argument but your
strategy for your argument is that
effectively
>> advocacy for policies that cause harm
economic harm or physical harm
>> could itself in this case right but we
were talking about economic harm earlier
so both both
>> economic harm also leads to physical
harm as well but
>> that that constitutes a form of could be
argued to constitute a form of
incitement
Right.
>> Yes. That's precisely what I'm saying,
right?
>> Yeah. And and that's actually the
argument with like policing,
>> right? But this
>> policing is a necessary institution.
People can just point to it and demand
more of it, but that in that demand,
they're technically demanding more of
the the unreasonable outcomes and
unjustifiable outcomes of policing that
lead to, for example, the death of
George Floyd. Right. Right. Or numerous
other cases. But this analogy is itself
part of why people think you are
normalizing
the things that are taboo which would be
which again would include right-wing
forms of violence. But if you say if
your theory is all of these things are
incitement. If you support putting more
people in jail that's incitement. If you
support uh you know uh border security
that's incitement. It's incitement all
the way down. Like you're you're
basically saying the person who incites
violence against a politician is in the
same position as the person who supports
border border security. And that seems
like an argument that lends itself to
encouraging people to commit political
violence because you're saying, "Oh,
it's all normal already. What's a little
more? What's one more act of incitement
in a world of incitement?" You're just
normalizing it when you make that
argument.
>> Yeah. My argument is that I'm not
normalizing it. It's already normal. I
don't want it to be normal. I want it to
be abnormal. I want people to to
actually take a serious look at the
violent structures that already exist
that from the point of the recipient is
already experienced as like a direct
form of violence. But do but do you
understand the broader point that I
tried to arrive at in these
conversations for the record which of
course lend themselves so perfectly to
uh quippy clips to just make it seem as
though you know this is a this is a
person that is uh uh very clearly
inciting a certain do you think I'm just
like do you think I'm just like uh
dancing around the issue? You can be
honest.
>> I think I think that there's a I'll be
honest. I think there's a reason that um
certain kinds of Marxism and socialist
radicalism when they take power or
trying to come to power tend to resort
to violence. And it is inherent in the
argument that you've made. I'm not
saying it's an an argument that doesn't
have a certain power. If it didn't have
a certain power, lots of people wouldn't
have believed in it. Right? There is an
inherent violence in the use of state
power. There is an inherent coercion in
all kinds of policies, including
policies that I support, right? You
know, I support I support restrictions
on drugs, right? That I'm probably you
do not that absolutely involve coercion.
I believe in restrictions on bodily
autonomy enforced by state power that
uses violence. I believe in that. Yeah,
>> I understand that someone can say as you
know as as a radical on the left
violence exists and we want to redirect
the violence and do I think that you
Hassan you know prosperous
prosperous media personality in Los
Angeles are enthusiastic about you know
the expropriation of wealth and punitive
violence by communist death squads? I
don't think you are. Um but I but I but
I think that the reason I think that the
reason you have strong taboss against
sort of you know about
>> I will say what I'm saying is to prevent
that that slope that slope from
>> from slipping in that way. Um,
>> okay. So, I am enthusiastic about the
expropriation of wealth for people such
as myself as well in the form of
taxation though and that's basically the
grand design that I have.
>> Right now though, no one's going to
deplatform you, right? You know, Twi
Twitch is not going to suspend you for
saying that you want to raise taxes on
the rich and use the the force of the
state to take But what do you think?
Like, do you think it do you think it
was reasonable for Twitch to suspend you
for a day for talking about killing Rick
Scott? Like, what are what are the
obligations I guess is I'm asking of of
platforms with this stuff?
>> Yeah. No, I think I think it's
understandable that uh Twitch did that,
which is why I apologize for the the use
of my language as well. Like I said,
there are certainly instances where uh
it's an emotionally charged conversation
or I'm being careless and it comes
across
uh it it it it reaches an unintended
audience that that sees it as uh in this
like super short format in a very
negative way. Um it's unfortunately a
byproduct of the the medium that I'm in
real time discourse happening with
random anonymous accounts.
>> But you're okay with some kind of some
kind of taboo maintenance here. Oh, for
sure.
>> In order for for normal discourse to
flourish, obviously uh some kind of
terms of service need to be implemented.
You know, like a direct call to violence
is of course going to be considered
unacceptable. I totally understand that.
Even if it's a even if it's like being
made in Jess or even if it's like being
misunderstood in that moment without the
without the appropriate context. Yeah.
>> Having said that, however, if we're
talking about like broader things, um
like uh and and we didn't really get to
talk about this a lot, but um a
deplatforming initiative has taken place
on Twitch and on numerous other
platforms uh mostly championed by the
ADL and some other actors as well uh
because of my consistent anti-Zionist
advocacy. I am an avowed anti-ionist. I
openly say it. I have also spent all of
my professional career uh combating
anti-semitism which has grown in this
country as well and and yet uh a lot of
these organizations I think and a lot of
people have falsely maligned and smeared
me as an anti-semite despite my advocacy
against anti-semitism.
>> So this this is this brings us to the
last area I want to talk about. You
you've mentioned you've mentioned a few
times growing up in Turkey. Mhm.
>> Just talk about for a minute your your
background in the Middle East and how it
shaped your politics. How it even how it
radicalized you might be a good way of
putting it.
>> Yeah. I mean I have I think a very
different opinion about American foreign
policy than the average American has due
to the fact that I didn't grow up in
America. I had more proximity or a
closeness to uh I guess the the
recipient of American violence and
American intervention. uh being uh
someone who who uh grew up in Turkey and
therefore my starting position is very
different uh to uh to the way that like
the American world police narrative was
designed in the United States of
America. Admonishing its enemies, making
them seem as though they're uh you know
barbaric uh and and deserving of like
some kind of direct military
intervention. These are things that I
obviously considered to be not only
wrong but also uh uh incredibly
consequential. This kind of sentiment
was incredibly consequential for people
who had to live in these countries and
had to be victims to uh boots on the
ground military warfare and and even
like the drone wars that u greatly
escalated under Obama.
>> What what do you think about the
government of Turkey?
I
I am not a fan of the government of
Turkey and uh I've written uh
extensively about uh my criticisms of
the government of Turkey. uh and uh
there it's part of the reason why I
can't really go back to Turkey even
though my whole family lives there uh
out of fear that uh I might be uh I
might be jailed
and I don't think the Trump
administration would demand my return as
an American citizen.
I I'm curious how you think about how
left-wing politics and Middle Eastern
culture and Islamic politics fit
together. And I understand you're not
you're not you're not a Muslim. You
don't consider yourself a Muslim and so
on, right? Muslim culturally, right? I'm
culturally Muslim in the same way many
secular Jews are Jewish or many American
Protestants say that they're Christian
but they're not really.
>> Right. I'm going to ask you for a take
and you know based based on that
background cuz I'm really interested in
the ways that sort of conservative forms
of Islam and the culture of the
progressive left right now fit together
both in Europe and the United States
because in a in a way these are
>> some of the most different groups you
can imagine, right? sort of forms of
Islamic cultural traditionalism are
pretty distant from
>> the norms and mores of like the secular
western left right
>> at the same time including on some of
the issues that you've been talking
about opposition to US foreign policy uh
Israel Palestine and so on there's a
very strong alliance often um between uh
sort of Muslims who feel the US is too
imperialist or too too pro-Israel right
and these these groups and it's a very
this is a pretty important force in
European politics and you see it I think
you see it more in progressive politics
in the US right now as sort of
opposition to Israeli military
operations in Gaza has become more and
more of a litmus test.
>> I'm just yeah I'm just curious if you
have thoughts on like how that how that
fits together. These two very different
very culturally different groups having
a kind of alliance of is it alliance of
convenience? Is it something more? What
do you think about that?
>> Super easy to explain. I disagree
vehemently with the clan. I don't want
Arkansas to be firebombed
into oblivion. I don't want the children
of clans members to be killed at their
schools. I don't want the hospitals that
clans members go to to be bombed as
well. And I'm not even making an
equivocation between the clan and for
example Hamas, which I consider to be a
resistance group. They they have a
emancipatory movement ultimately. I
don't agree with their internal
politics, their domestic affairs. I
don't agree with uh a lot of the things
that they represent or a lot of the
things that they say, but these are
utterly inconsequential in the grand
scheme of things in the overarching
hierarchy.
uh where the the number one most
consequential wrong that's taking place
is not only um 78 plus years of of
brutal occupation and apartheid but then
also the ongoing genocide for the past 2
years. I feel like that is far more
important to address than any number of
of different like civil liberty
initiatives that Muslim countries could
engage in. And I think a lot of people
see it that way as well where they're
just like I don't think this should be
happening. I don't think that this
violence should be happening and we need
to solve that first and foremost. It's
not necessarily that uh leftists in the
west are like uh uh firm and committed
believers in I don't know whatever kind
of like stereotype version of of uh
Islamic fundamentalism.
>> No, I don't I don't think they are that
people present.
>> No, I I completely agree. That's that's
I think a big part of why it's
>> an interesting an interesting political
formation, right?
>> I'm going to run with the clan analogy
just because you offered it to me,
right? Like if there was a war against a
small political state controlled by the
KKK
>> that followed in the aftermath of the
KKK going out and killing a lot of
African-Americans, black women and
children. Um
>> Mhm.
>> and the larger region consisted of a
bunch of regimes that even if they
weren't fully KKK had some sort of white
supremacist, you know, elements uh at
all were authoritarian and so on, right?
Like
>> I feel like a lot of people would see a
little more complexity in that drama
than your than you do in the way you
talk about Israel and Zionism.
>> Yeah. And I should say I think I think
opposition to and skepticism of the
Israeli strategy in Gaza is totally
understandable and I've expressed it
myself. Right. But you're something
more. Again, you are you're an you're an
anti-ionist.
>> Yeah.
>> You've in fact you've said as long as
we're doing KKK things in one of your
one of your arguments, you've said sort
of, you know, uh a certain kind of
Zionist tendency should be treated the
same way we treat neo-Nazi tendencies,
right? And then that kind of rhetoric
shows up around around on the left.
Yeah. Isn't there something a little bit
strange from a left-wing perspective
about the that kind of focus on the
crimes of one country in an environment
that you've just yourself analogized to
to the KKK?
So, great question. Um, the reason why I
made certain to mention that I find the
clan's political opinions to be
repugnant, but I still would not
advocate to firebomb them, but then also
made a distinction between uh Hamas as
an emancipatory movement that is uh that
has evolved over the years to to fight
back in ways that I might even
personally find to be uh uh
inappropriate or morally repugnant. um
ultimately
>> one or the other
>> there is a
>> more more of more inappropriate or more
morally repugnant.
>> I think that as as someone who believes
in human rights I think like targeting
civilians is the major reason why I
criticize Israel. It would be very
hypocritical if I consider targeting
civilians to be appropriate if it was uh
done during an emancipatory struggle.
Having said that, I do have uh the same
understanding or the same uh uh the the
same conceptualization of that kind of
resistance uh as I do with the ANC or as
I do with the IRA or even uh with with
the abolition of slavery in this
country. Right? The reason why I don't
think it's an apt analogy to compare the
KKK to Hamas beyond like disagreements
and and and enforcement is because the
clan has not been dominated or or the
the clan itself has not existed under a
a brutal structure of like black
supremacy uh that uh that wiped them
out. This is the reason why I don't
think the comparison is apt in that
regard because I I do agree with
Palestinian liberation as as a concept.
Whereas I would liken the clans
operations or their worldview uh to the
same kind of ethnoreigious supremacy
that is baked into Zionism as well and
the exterminationist policies I think
that also exists within Zionism as well.
So the clan is a closer analogy uh when
when it formalizes and it turns into a
system of violence to what Israel is
doing. This is why I'm also not shy
about making comparisons to even Nazi
Germany which a lot of people I think
maybe a couple years ago even myself uh
would cons would would shy away from
doing.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think those comparisons
are are, you know, not really persuasive
at all. If you actually read about the
things that the Nazis did on the Eastern
Front and compare them to, you know,
whatever war crimes you accuse Israel
of, those comparisons seem pretty faulty
to me. and they seem faulty in a way
that again I think yields a kind of
unique scapegoating of the Zionist state
within the wider range of Middle Eastern
states especially right so like you know
it's if you look at the history of the
Middle East over the last 80 years
most of the crimes that you're accusing
the Israeli government of committing
have you know I mean if you look at the
history of Iraq If you look at what
happened to the Jews in Arab countries
after 1947 and 1948. If you're looking
for, you know, ruthless oppression, you
can look next door to Egypt, right? Like
it seems like there are many, many
potential targets of a leftist utopian
form of moral outrage. And again, I'm
not right now Israel is conducting a
brutal war. And so I'm not saying I'm
not going to genocide I agree I agree
with you that like right now it would be
weird for you to go on your stream and
say
>> let's not talk about Gaza, you know,
let's talk about how the corruption of
the Saudi monarchy. I I agree with that
>> at the same
>> which by the way I do I do talk about
the the Saudi monarchy quite a bit or
numerous other uh collaborative states
uh far before even the Abraham Accords
were implemented.
But you wouldn't describe yourself,
right, as an I don't I don't know what
the right term is, but you wouldn't say
like it's, you know, it's wrong for
Saudi Arabia to exist because it was,
you know, founded in some acts of
violence, right?
>> But can I can I elaborate on that?
>> Yeah. I would say that it is utterly
inappropriate and wrong if there were
exclusionary practices and some of this
does exist in in the Muslim states that
we're talking about where uh there was
no uh no allowance for for example Jews
to come and live in these countries,
right? and and as a matter of fact
speaking I'm pretty sure speaking as a
Christian that there are some pretty
exclusivist rules in more than a few
Middle Eastern countries. Right. So
absolutely and I see that as a as a uh
as a byproduct of the rampant
destabilization that has existed in this
resourcerich region and I my criticism
against these countries not having the
allowance or not having any moment of of
respit to be able to evolve. Um, I see
that as a byproduct of American
imperialism and Western imperialism as
well because it makes it a lot more
difficult for people to have uh any sort
of civil rights struggle when they're so
predisposed with uh being bombed or
being destabilized in one way, shape or
form other uh either in the hands of
Israel as as a destabilizing factor in
the region or directly through American
intervention, British intervention and
the like for for coups and whatnot to
take place in these countries. makes it
quite difficult for for uh the the
regime change to take place in a
revolutionary manner. And the Iranian
revolution also is a is a great example
of this as well. When you put a puppet
state in charge that is western aligned,
a lot of people and that puppet state
must enforce its dominance over and over
again through brutal practices of
torture and and mass incarceration.
People are inevitably going to revolt
against that. And what I have seen in my
experience as someone growing up in
Turkey, more often than not, the people
that actually find themselves the most
earnest anti-western figures, the people
that that uh that these uh resentful
populations can unite behind, often
times actually wear fundamentalism as as
a as a way to show how anti-western they
are. And this is the reason why some of
these like despotic regimes actually end
up uh taking power.
>> But you wouldn't you wouldn't extend it
seems to me like you wouldn't extend
that kind of structural argument and
narrative to the Israelis, right? You're
like, well, you know, there's so much
there's Western imperialism, you know,
there's war, there's violence. This is
this is how the Middle East, you know,
ends up with dictators and theocrats.
Okay, the state of Israel has been
surrounded by countries that deny its
right to exist, have invaded it
repeatedly, and yeah,
>> I don't think and and yet that narrative
to you does not inspire any sympathy for
for the Israelis
>> because because they're because they're
currently winning.
>> It's incorrect to say that my analysis
does not factor in uh like externalities
or or resistance against like uh
Israel's incursions, for example.
Ultimately, it goes back to did the
Palestinians have good reason to say we
oppose this, we oppose the Israeli
state. Was it born out of ancient
anti-semitism or was it born out of an
emancipatory need that all indigenous
people have, all peoples of the world
have in terms of developing autonomy
that Israel makes for its own Jewish
determination, right? a Jewish state's
self-determination which
>> but surely it could be both right you
could say of course there's you know
there's an admirable understandable
desire for emancipation a desire to have
your home own homeland um
>> and but at the same time at a certain
point when it hits you know certain a
certain level of uh you know KKK style
hatred you would say even if the
original motivation is correct even if
there are understandable motivations
here something hatred is correct. That's
precisely the reason why it invokes a
violent resist or re reaction though.
But ultimately
>> that is what Zionism ends up becoming.
And if left unressed, this inherent
contradiction, this this notion that uh
of Jewish self-determination is
presented as like a totally normal
thing. Everybody has self-determination.
People have a right to to develop their
own nation state. But this one
specifically has demographic concerns.
demographic concerns that require the
eradication or the mass displacement of
the indigenous population that do not
fit the the in-group, the demographic
inroup. And that is at the heart of this
this uh problem of of of how certain
societies get more and more comfortable
with fascist violence. And I see this as
a as a dual problem in America as well
as Israel.
>> So let's take let's just take that cuz I
know you have to go stream. This is this
is the last
>> I mean I could talk about this all day
by the way especially on the New York
Times. I mean this you I'm sure you will
be talking about it all day. Some of us
some of us though don't have the same
stamina. So I'm just going to ask a last
question off that point. Right. You're
talking about parallels between the
Israeli situation and the US situation.
You know you're talking about you know
the idea that the Israeli situation
represents
>> fascism facing facing resistance. the US
situation. Obviously, lots of people on
the left consider Trump a fascist. This
is a very dark narrative and one of my
recurring sort of themes over the last
month has been watching the left as an
outsider and seeing it go dark in effect
get really really pessimistic. So, I
want to ask you about that about
>> nihilism and despair. you have a
worldview, you know, that has a very
bleak vision of the US empire as a
global force.
>> I wouldn't say that. Okay. So, tell me
tell me why. Tell me why you're
optimistic. Let's end there.
>> Yes. So, what I constantly and I see
this as well. I think nihilism is a
major problem in in the increasingly
alienated, increasingly isolated uh
permanently online generations that are
born into a universe where they just
have an iPad in front of them from the
start, right? And and that nihilism is
born out of uh our lack of our inability
to make changes, meaningful changes in
the system. One example I will use is
like the Black Lives Matter protest that
took place. Black Lives Matter protest
took place. A lot of people in the
aftermath of these lockdowns were very
frustrated. They they they saw something
that was uh so patently unjust and they
wanted to make demands. They did all of
the right things. They protested. Some
of those protests actually with uh
police intervention in some instances
turned even violent. Right? Many people
were arrested as a consequence of this.
But the broad majority of the protests
were were started off peacefully and the
the argument was perfectly reasonable.
We have to do something about uh the the
unfair practice of policing in black and
brown neighborhoods and and uh the
systemic racism that exists within the
criminal justice system. And it's an
argument that I also of course agree
with. Now after that they also then
turned around and voted. They voted for
the Democratic party. Joe Biden won over
Donald Trump. There was a period of
celebration, but no change actually
came. The same structures of oppression
existed and the Democrats actually
presented an alternative. They spent
most of their time criticizing uh the
the activist born defund the police
movement uh without trying to understand
exactly what that meant. Basically for
the political normie they did everything
by the book and no change came. What do
you expect in the aftermath of that but
nihilism but my solution to that always
been has always been to maintain
revolutionary optimism. I tell people
not to succumb to nihilism all the time.
I tell people to maintain revolutionary
optimism. And the reason why I say that
is because I I myself understand how
change takes place, how long it takes
for actual systemic change, seismic
shifts uh to take place in society, even
in a democratic one that maybe is a
theoretical democracy but doesn't
actually abide by the democratic wishes
of the majority. I know that these
things take time and one thing that I
have seen that has given me tremendous
confidence has been the attitude the
societal attitude on on the issue of
Israel. I think the sheer brutality of
Israel's conquest over the Palestinians,
what I uh and and the international
community now recognizes as a genocide
has, I think, made people in spite of
the the media sanitation, made people
reflect on that and made people
recognize the truth. So that actually
gives me a little bit of hope that I
think people do have the capacity to see
uh exactly what's going on and and and
have uh have the capacity to recognize
right from wrong and to demand change no
matter how uh impossible said change
feels.
>> Hassan thanks so much for joining
me.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> You're very welcome.
[Music]